CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# CONTRIBUTING

## Developing/Debugging this extension

---
### General
- ***This extension is currently in pre-release. Feel free to raise an issue, but pull requests are unlikely to be accepted until we reach Release v1.0.0 due to code volatility.*** You should also hold off forking before v1.0.0, or make sure to merge down updates.
- Before starting any development, please make sure to fully read through both the [README](README.md) and this document. It may save you some development pain and/or solve your issue.
- If you are going to be developing/debugging this extension, then disable the installed (marketplace) version of the extension. Leaving the extension enabled while debugging the extension can cause confusing side-effects via background execution.
- If you want to contribute to the extension, read through everything below, then fork the repo, make your changes, and submit a pull request.
- This code is under the MIT licence (i.e. you are free to fork it and do your own thing as long as the [LICENSE](LICENSE.txt) is included), but please do contribute bug fix PRs to the [original repo](https://github.com/jimasp/behave-vsc).
- Fixes are great. New features will be considered, but see [Development guidelines](#Design-Principles).

---
### Development environment setup for extension development
- It is assumed that you have already installed git and Python 3.x.x
- Example commands given for installing external software (nvm, node, python) were correct at the time of writing, but these are likely to go out of date. For external software, you should always check the latest instructions on the official websites.
1. Install node (via nvm) if you don't have it.
	- Linux (bash assumed): 
		- `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.1/install.sh | bash` (command for latest version found [here](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#install--update-script))
		- `source ~/.bashrc && source ~/.bash_profile && source ~/.profile`
		- `nvm install --lts`
		- `nvm use --lts`		
	- Windows: 
		- Use the installer [here](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows/releases)
		- Open a fresh **new** administrator command prompt
		- `nvm install latest`
		- `nvm use latest`
2. Open visual studio code
3. Disable or uninstall the marketplace version of the extension (otherwise you will have two instances of the extension running, and associated side effects)
4. ***Close visual studio code***
5. Open a command line window, go to your source folder, and clone the extension source code, example:
	- `cd mysourcedir`
	- `git clone https://github.com/jimasp/behave-vsc.git`
6. Change to the cloned directory, and install required node packages:
	- `cd mysourcedir/behave-vsc`		
	- `npm install`
7. Install behave 1.2.6 if required:  
	- `python -m pip install behave==1.2.6` 
8. Install required extensions for developing the extension:  
	- `code --install-extension ms-python.python` (if not already installed)
	- `code --install-extension dbaeumer.vscode-eslint`
	- `code --install-extension amodio.tsl-problem-matcher`
9. Check that all tests pass BEFORE opening visual studio code. This will confirm your environment is set up correctly before you start development.
	- `npm run test`
10. If any of the tests fail, then double-check the steps above. Otherwise, you can debug them - see [Debugging integration tests](#debugging-integration-tests) further down.
11. Note - if at any point you perform a `git clean`, pull a new version of the source code, or switch branch, you will need to run `npm install` again.
---
### Terminology
- The "host" environment refers to the instance of vscode that that says "Extension Development Host" in the title bar, i.e. the instance that is spawned by clicking the run button in the extension source code project.
- The "source" environment refers to the instance of vscode that contains the Behave VSC source code.

---
### Debugging with the example projects
1. Set up your development environment as above. 
2. Make sure you have disabled the marketplace version of the extension.
3. Open vscode, and open the behave-vsc source folder (close any other folders you have open).
4. (`Ctrl+Shift+B`) to build and kick off a watch (this is optional as it will happen anyway , but you should do it if it's your first ever debug).
5. (Optional) set breakpoints in the extension code, e.g. start with a breakpoint in `src/extension.ts activate` function.
6. (`Ctrl+Shift+D`) to open the Run and Debug side bar.
7. Disable "raised/caught exceptions" if you have them enabled.
8. Click one of the "Debug Extension" targets, e.g. "Debug Extension - Workspace Simple" (if a "Debug Extension..." is the current selection, you can just hit (`F5`) from anywhere).
9. Tips:
 	- You can relaunch the extension from the debug toolbar in the (source not host) vscode environment after changing extension code. 
	 Alternatively, you can reload (`Ctrl+R`) the vscode host environment to load your changes.
 	- If for some reason you need to have "uncaught exceptions" enabled in the (source, not host) vscode environment, note that you may need to 
	 hit play multiple times in the extension vscode environment to continue if it hits external code.

## Debugging with your own host project
- Remember to disable the extension.
- Open `.vscode/launch.json` in the extension repo project and change the `args` setting that contains `"${workspaceFolder}/../my-project"` to repoint it at your project path. 
- Then it's the same steps as above, just click "Debug Extension - MY PROJECT"

---
## Running integration tests
Either:  
- a. (`Ctrl+Shift+D`) and click one of the "Run Extension Test Suite" targets (if a "Run Extension Tests..." is the current selection, you can just hit (`F5`) from anywhere)  
OR  
- b. Close vscode and excecute `npm run test` from a command line.

---
## Debugging integration tests
1. Optional - hit (`Ctrl+Shift+B`) to build and kick off a watch.
2. Open the debug viewlet (`Ctrl+Shift+D`) and from the launch configuration dropdown pick `Run Extension Test Suite`.
3. Optionally add a breakpoint in e.g. `runAllTestsAndAssertTheResults`.
4. Hit play or press `F5` to run the tests in a new window with your extension loaded.
5. See the output of the test result in the debug console (in your original source environment, not the host environment).
6. To debug `npm run test` itself (as opposed the test suite), see comment in `runTestSuites.ts`.  
If you want to add a test, they should go somewhere in `src/test`.    
  - The provided test runner will only consider files matching the name pattern `**.test.ts`.
  - You can create folders inside the `test` folder to structure your tests.



---
## Generating the extension installer manually (.vsix file)
If you have a customised fork and you want to distribute it to your team, you will want to create your own .vsix file:
1. `npm install -g vsce` (installs latest version of packaging tool)
2. `vsce package -o ../mypackagefolder/my-behave-vsc.vsix`


---
## Troubleshooting
- See troubleshooting section in the main [README](README.md#troubleshooting) for non-development issues.  
- ***Most extension development problems can be resolved by either:***
	- ***(a) removing all breakpoints, or***
	- ***(b) restarting the watch tasks in terminal window, or***
	- ***(c) restarting vscode.***
- Have you remembered to disable the marketplace version of the extension?
- If an exception is not bubbling, see [Error handling](#error-handling).
- Is the problem actually in another extension (if debugging, check the file path of the file you have you stepped into).
- Have you pulled the latest version of the source code?
- Have you followed all the steps in [Development environment setup for extension development](#development-environment-setup-for-extension-development), including `npm install`?
- Does the issue occur with the example project workspaces, or just in your own project? What is different about your proect? 
- Have you made any changes yourself? If so, can you e.g. stash/backup your changes and do a `git clean -fxd` and pull latest?	
- If extension integration tests get stuck while running debug tests, disable all breakpoints in the host vscode environment.
- If you are stepping in to external code, then it's likely you either hit the pause button, or you need to remove all breakpoints.
- If you get an error running "Debug Extension...", try setting a breakpoint at the start of the `activate()` function.
- If you get an error running "Run Extension Test Suite...", try setting a breakpoint at the start of the `runAllTestsAndAssertTheResults()` function.
- If you don't hit either above function breakpoint, try putting a breakpoint at the very first (import) line of every `.ts` file and see if it jumps out of debugging, e.g. is there a node module import/webpack issue? 
- Delete all breakpoints from both source and host environments if any of the following occur:
	- If you don't hit a breakpoint that you're sure you should be hitting. This may be down to sourcemaps and breakpoints being out of sync (in this case, also consider doing a `git commit` and `git clean fdx`). 
	- If `npm run test` fails on the command line due to a timeout.
	- If a "Run Extension Test Suite..." test fails during debugging due to a timeout.

---
## Development guidelines
- No reliance on other extensions except `ms-python.python`.
- YAGNI - don't be tempted to add new extension functionality the majority of people don't need. More code means more stuff that can break and/or lead to slower performance. Edge-case capabilities should be in forked repos. (If you think it's a common concern, then please submit a feature request issue or PR.) 
- KISS - "It just works" - simple, minimal code to get the job done that is easily understood by others. 
- Don't reinvent the wheel - leverage `vscode` methods (especially for paths), and if necessary standard node functions, to handle things wherever possible. 
- Regardless of the above point, don't add extra npm packages. We want to keep the extension lightweight, and avoid versioning/security/licensing/audit problems. (Feel free to use packages that are already in the `node_modules` folder if required.)
- Don't attempt to modify/intercept or overcome any limitations of standard behave behaviour. The user should get the same results if they run the outputted behave command manually. 
- Always consider performance.
- Always consider multi-root workspaces, e.g. different workspace settings per workspace folder, output channels are per workspace folder, etc. and consider that workspaces folders may be added/removed by the user at run time.
- Avoid anything that might break on someone else's machine - for example don't rely on bash/cmd, installed programs etc.
- Always consider cross-platform, i.e. OS-independent drive/path separators (consider `C:\...` vs `/home/...`). Use `vscode` functionality like `uri.path` or `uri.fsPath`, `relativePattern`, etc. wherever possible (don't use `path.join` outside of integration tests). Also consider `/` vs `\` in any pattern matching/replaces etc. (Where possible vscode/node converts `\`to `/` itself for consistency, e.g. with `uri.path`.) Line-endings (use `\n` internally). Encoding (use `utf8`). Consider that windows max path is 260 characters.
- While the extension is not internationalised, `Date()` should generally be avoided and/or `Date().toISOString()` can be used if required for user output. The `performance` library should be used for timings.
- Look out for race conditions. You can have e.g. 3 workspaces running in parallel, and they could all be running parallel tests. (It's a good idea to do your coding/testing with a multiroot workspace, like the example one provided with this source code.)
- Consider multiple instances of vscode, where the extension could be running twice or more on the same machine. For example, run names are unique ids, so you can be sure they are unique to the vscode instance as well as the workspace.
- Also see [General development notes](#general-development-notes) below.
	
---
# General development notes
### Configuration
- Configuration and logging is provided by the singleton `config`.
### Disposables
- Any disposable object should either be added to `context.subscriptions.push` or disposed in a `finally` block or in the `deactivate()`. (The most common disposables are event handlers, filesystemwatchers, and cancelllation token sources.)
### Error handling
- Most of the time, i.e. outside of entry point/non-awaited functions, you want to use either `throw new WkspError(...)` if there is a workspace uri available to the function, or otherwise via `throw "mymessage"`. This will then get logged further up the stack by the entrypoint function.
- Thrown errors with a type of `Error` (inc. `throw new WkspError`) will include the stack trace in the log. `throw "my error message"` will not.
- Background (i.e. unawaited) async functions/promises should always contain a `try/catch` with a `config.logError`.
- Any entry point functions/event handlers/hooks such as `activate`,`deactivate`, `onDidChangeConfiguration`, `onCancellationRequested`, `testRunHandler`, `OnDidChange` inside a filesystemwatcher, etc. should always have a `try/catch` with a `config.logError`. These are the top-level functions and so they need catches in order to log errors to the output window. 
- When adding a throw/logError, then ALWAYS test that error handling works as expected by deliberately throwing the error, i.e. check it gets gets logged correctly and only gets logged once.
- Any thrown errors are going to reach the user, so they should be things that either the user can act upon to fix, or exceptions like logic errors and stuff that is never supposed to happen that should be raised as issues in github. Diagnostics are provided via console.error/warn/log and can be viewed via Developer:Toggle developer tools, or in the debug console if debugging the extension itself.

### Logging
- Logging errors and warnings will cause the Behave VSC output window to be shown when logged, logging info will not.
- *Unless you are in an entry point function, handler or unawaited async function, then errors should be thrown, not logged*. This is so that (a) all parent catches know about the error and can act on it, for example to stop a test run, and (b) the error only gets logged once (at the top of the stack).
- Logging warnings is done via `config.logger.logWarn`.
- Log to all Behave VSC output windows (regardless of workspace): `config.logger.logInfoAllWksps`. *Note - this should only be used where a workspace context does not make sense.*
- Log to the Behave VSC workspace context output window and any active debug window: `config.logger.logInfo("msg", wkspUri)`. Preferred over `logInfoAllWksps()` where possible.
- Log to the vscode test run output at the same time: specify the run parameter: `config.loger.logInfo("msg", wkspUri, run)`.
- Log only to the vscode test run output: `run.appendOutput("msg")`.
- Log only for extension developers (contributors) and users who want to see diagnostic output: `console.log("msg")`.



---
## Before requesting a PR merge
### General
- PRs are unlikely to be accepted before release v1.0.0, but feel free to raise one if it helps to highlight an issue.
- Fixes are given priority over new functionality. Also, new functionality _must_ have tests.
- Raise an issue describing the problem that the PR is resolving and link the PR in the issue.
### Process
- Generally speaking, you should not modify the example project workspaces in your PR _unless_ you are _adding_ new feature/steps files or _adding/improving_ existing tests. (Either way, any changes to the example project workspaces will require you to update the test code for expected results.)
- Quickly review your code vs the project's [Development guidelines](#design-principles)
- Is your bug/use case covered by an existing test, or example project feature file? If not, is it possible to add one so it doesn't break again?
- `npm run lint` and fix any errors or warnings
- Run automated tests (verify behave results):
	- Close vscode and run `npm run test` 
		- if the tests get stuck on debug, disable the "uncaught exceptions" breakpoint in the host vscode environment
		- if the tests fail, see [Debugging integration tests](#debugging-integration-tests))
- Run manual UI tests. After running automated tests, if you made a change that affects anything other than behave test results then you'll want to run some manual tests of the _affected areas_. As an example, if you changed anything that affects feature file/step file parsing or filesystem watchers or workspace settings, then you'd want to run these manual tests as a minimum. (Unless something fails, this process should take you less than 5 mins):
	1. commit your changes locally (because you are about to make file changes)
	2. start "Debug Extension - Workspace MultiRoot", then	in "project 1":
	3. edit a group1 feature file, change the name of the feature and save it, then: 
		- check you can run the renamed feature from inside the feature file (first play button at top of feature file)
		- check the test UI tree shows the renamed feature (you may need to reopen the node)
		- check you can run the renamed feature from UI tree
	4. edit a group1 outline feature file, change the name of a scenario and save it, then: 
		- check you can run the changed scenario from inside the feature file
		- disable raised exceptions if required, put a breakpoint in environment.py and check you can debug the renamed scenario from inside the feature file
		- check the test UI tree shows the renamed scenario (you may need to reopen the node)
	5. open a diff comparison on the feature file you changed (leave the feature file open in another tab)
	6. close vscode, open it again, check that having a feature file open on start up, you can run a scenario from inside the feature file 
	(the normal feature file that is open, not the diff view)
	7. rename a feature file, in the test side bar, check the feature is not duplicated in the test UI tree, check feature tests run from the feature file, and then the test ui
	8. rename a feature group folder (e.g. 'group1_features'), check the folder is not duplicated, check feature tests run from test ui tree
	9. delete a feature file, check it gets removed from the test tree
	10. create a new feature file, copy/paste in a scenario, check it gets added to the test tree
	11. copy a feature file, check it gets added to the test tree
	12. go to a feature file, click "go to step defintion" and check at least some of them work
	13. rename the same steps file you just used, then check you can still use "go to step definition" for a step in that file
	14. use git to undo any changes created in these manual tests
	15. Start "Debug Extension - Workspace MultiRoot" and add/remove a workspace folder and check there are no errors, and that tests run as expected before/after the add/remove.

Commit message:

integration test tweaks and adding logDiagnostics setting

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# CONTRIBUTING

## Developing/Debugging this extension

---
### General
- ***This extension is currently in pre-release. Feel free to raise an issue, but pull requests are unlikely to be accepted until we reach Release v1.0.0 due to code volatility.*** You should also hold off forking before v1.0.0, or make sure to merge down updates.
- Before starting any development, please make sure to fully read through both the [README](README.md) and this document. It may save you some development pain and/or solve your issue.
- If you are going to be developing/debugging this extension, then disable the installed (marketplace) version of the extension. Leaving the extension enabled while debugging the extension can cause confusing side-effects via background execution.
- If you want to contribute to the extension, read through everything below, then fork the repo, make your changes, and submit a pull request.
- This code is under the MIT licence (i.e. you are free to fork it and do your own thing as long as the [LICENSE](LICENSE.txt) is included), but please do contribute bug fix PRs to the [original repo](https://github.com/jimasp/behave-vsc).
- Bug fixes are great. New features will be considered, but see [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines).

---
### Development environment setup for extension development
- It is assumed that you have already installed git and Python 3.x.x
- Example commands given for installing external software (nvm, node, python) were correct at the time of writing, but these are likely to go out of date. For external software, you should always check the latest instructions on the official websites.
1. Install node (via nvm) if you don't have it.
	- Linux (bash assumed): 
		- `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.1/install.sh | bash` (command for latest version found [here](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#install--update-script))
		- `source ~/.bashrc && source ~/.bash_profile && source ~/.profile`
		- `nvm install --lts`
		- `nvm use --lts`		
	- Windows: 
		- Use the installer [here](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows/releases)
		- Open a fresh **new** administrator command prompt
		- `nvm install latest`
		- `nvm use latest`
2. Open visual studio code
3. Disable or uninstall the marketplace version of the extension (otherwise you will have two instances of the extension running, and associated side effects)
4. ***Close visual studio code***
5. Open a command line window, go to your source folder, and clone the extension source code, example:
	- `cd mysourcedir`
	- `git clone https://github.com/jimasp/behave-vsc.git`
6. Change to the cloned directory, and install required node packages:
	- `cd mysourcedir/behave-vsc`		
	- `npm install`
7. Install behave 1.2.6 if required:  
	- `python -m pip install behave==1.2.6` 
8. Install required extensions for developing the extension:  
	- `code --install-extension ms-python.python` (if not already installed)
	- `code --install-extension dbaeumer.vscode-eslint`
	- `code --install-extension amodio.tsl-problem-matcher`
9. Check that all tests pass BEFORE opening visual studio code. This will confirm your environment is set up correctly before you start development.
	- `npm run test`
10. If any of the tests fail, then double-check the steps above. Otherwise, you can debug them - see [Debugging integration tests](#debugging-integration-tests) further down.
11. Note - if at any point you perform a `git clean`, pull a new version of the source code, or switch branch, you will need to run `npm install` again.
---
### Terminology
- The "host" environment refers to the instance of vscode that that says "Extension Development Host" in the title bar, i.e. the instance that is spawned by clicking the run button in the extension source code project.
- The "source" environment refers to the instance of vscode that contains the Behave VSC source code.

---
### Debugging with the example projects
1. Set up your development environment as above. 
2. Make sure you have disabled the marketplace version of the extension.
3. Open vscode, and open the behave-vsc source folder (close any other folders you have open).
4. (`Ctrl+Shift+B`) to build and kick off a watch (this is optional as it will happen anyway , but you should do it if it's your first ever debug).
5. (Optional) set breakpoints in the extension code, e.g. start with a breakpoint in `src/extension.ts activate` function.
6. (`Ctrl+Shift+D`) to open the Run and Debug side bar.
7. Disable "raised/caught exceptions" if you have them enabled.
8. Click one of the "Debug Extension" targets, e.g. "Debug Extension - Workspace Simple" (if a "Debug Extension..." is the current selection, you can just hit (`F5`) from anywhere).
9. Tips:
 	- You can relaunch the extension from the debug toolbar in the (source not host) vscode environment after changing extension code. 
	 Alternatively, you can reload (`Ctrl+R`) the vscode host environment to load your changes.
 	- If for some reason you need to have "uncaught exceptions" enabled in the (source, not host) vscode environment, note that you may need to 
	 hit play multiple times in the extension vscode environment to continue if it hits external code.

## Debugging with your own host project
- Remember to disable the extension.
- Open `.vscode/launch.json` in the extension repo project and change the `args` setting that contains `"${workspaceFolder}/../my-project"` to repoint it at your project path. 
- Then it's the same steps as above, just click "Debug Extension - MY PROJECT"

---
## Running integration tests
Either:  
- a. (`Ctrl+Shift+D`) and click one of the "Run Extension Test Suite" targets (if a "Run Extension Tests..." is the current selection, you can just hit (`F5`) from anywhere)  
OR  
- b. Close vscode and excecute `npm run test` from a command line.

---
## Debugging integration tests
1. Optional - hit (`Ctrl+Shift+B`) to build and kick off a watch.
2. Open the debug viewlet (`Ctrl+Shift+D`) and from the launch configuration dropdown pick `Run Extension Test Suite`.
3. Optionally add a breakpoint in e.g. `runAllTestsAndAssertTheResults`.
4. Hit play or press `F5` to run the tests in a new window with your extension loaded.
5. See the output of the test result in the debug console (in your original source environment, not the host environment).
6. To debug `npm run test` itself (as opposed the test suite), see comment in `runTestSuites.ts`.  
If you want to add a test, they should go somewhere in `src/test`.    
  - The provided test runner will only consider files matching the name pattern `**.test.ts`.
  - You can create folders inside the `test` folder to structure your tests.



---
## Generating the extension installer manually (.vsix file)
If you have a customised fork and you want to distribute it to your team, you will want to create your own .vsix file:
1. `npm install -g vsce` (installs latest version of packaging tool)
2. `vsce package -o ../mypackagefolder/my-behave-vsc.vsix`


---
## Troubleshooting
- See troubleshooting section in the main [README](README.md#troubleshooting) for non-development issues.  
- ***Most extension development problems can be resolved by either:***
	- ***(a) removing all breakpoints, or***
	- ***(b) restarting the watch tasks in terminal window, or***
	- ***(c) restarting vscode.***
- Have you remembered to disable the marketplace version of the extension?
- If an exception is not bubbling, see [Error handling](#error-handling).
- Is the problem actually in another extension (if debugging, check the file path of the file you have you stepped into).
- Have you pulled the latest version of the source code?
- Have you followed all the steps in [Development environment setup for extension development](#development-environment-setup-for-extension-development), including `npm install`?
- Does the issue occur with the example project workspaces, or just in your own project? What is different about your proect? 
- Have you made any changes yourself? If so, can you e.g. stash/backup your changes and do a `git clean -fxd` and pull latest?	
- If extension integration tests get stuck while running debug tests, disable all breakpoints in the host vscode environment.
- If you are stepping in to external code, then it's likely you either hit the pause button, or you need to remove all breakpoints.
- If you get an error running "Debug Extension...", try setting a breakpoint at the start of the `activate()` function.
- If you get an error running "Run Extension Test Suite...", try setting a breakpoint at the start of the `runAllTestsAndAssertTheResults()` function.
- If you don't hit either above function breakpoint, try putting a breakpoint at the very first (import) line of every `.ts` file and see if it jumps out of debugging, e.g. is there a node module import/webpack issue? 
- Delete all breakpoints from both source and host environments if any of the following occur:
	- If you don't hit a breakpoint that you're sure you should be hitting. This may be down to sourcemaps and breakpoints being out of sync (in this case, also consider doing a `git commit` and `git clean fdx`). 
	- If `npm run test` fails on the command line due to a timeout.
	- If a "Run Extension Test Suite..." test fails during debugging due to a timeout.

---
## Development guidelines
- No reliance on other extensions except `ms-python.python`.
- YAGNI - don't be tempted to add new extension functionality the majority of people don't need. More code means more stuff that can break and/or lead to slower performance. Edge-case capabilities should be in forked repos. (If you think it's a common concern, then please submit a feature request issue or PR.) 
- KISS - "It just works" - simple, minimal code to get the job done that is easily understood by others. 
- Don't reinvent the wheel - leverage `vscode` methods (especially for paths), and if necessary standard node functions, to handle things wherever possible. 
- Regardless of the above point, don't add extra npm packages. We want to keep the extension lightweight, and avoid versioning/security/licensing/audit problems. (Feel free to use packages that are already in the `node_modules` folder if required.)
- Don't attempt to modify/intercept or overcome any limitations of standard behave behaviour. The user should get the same results if they run the outputted behave command manually. 
- Always consider performance.
- Always consider multi-root workspaces, e.g. different workspace settings per workspace folder, output channels are per workspace folder, etc. and consider that workspaces folders may be added/removed by the user at run time.
- Avoid anything that might break on someone else's machine - for example don't rely on bash/cmd, installed programs etc.
- Always consider cross-platform, i.e. OS-independent drive/path separators (consider `C:\...` vs `/home/...`). Use `vscode` functionality like `uri.path` or `uri.fsPath`, `relativePattern`, etc. wherever possible (don't use `path.join` outside of integration tests). Also consider `/` vs `\` in any pattern matching/replaces etc. (Where possible vscode/node converts `\`to `/` itself for consistency, e.g. with `uri.path`.) Line-endings (use `\n` internally). Encoding (use `utf8`). Consider that windows max path is 260 characters.
- While the extension is not internationalised, `Date()` should generally be avoided and/or `Date().toISOString()` can be used if required for user output. The `performance` library should be used for timings.
- Look out for race conditions. You can have e.g. 3 workspaces running in parallel, and they could all be running parallel tests. (It's a good idea to do your coding/testing with a multiroot workspace, like the example one provided with this source code.)
- Consider multiple instances of vscode, where the extension could be running twice or more on the same machine. For example, run names are unique ids, so you can be sure they are unique to the vscode instance as well as the workspace.
- Also see [General development notes](#general-development-notes) below.
	
---
# General development notes
### Configuration
- Configuration and logging is provided by the singleton `config`.
### Disposables
- Any disposable object should either be added to `context.subscriptions.push` or disposed in a `finally` block or in the `deactivate()`. (The most common disposables are event handlers, filesystemwatchers, and cancelllation token sources.)
### Diagnostics
- Diagnostic logs are controlled via the extension setting `logDiagnostics` (this is enabled by default in the example projects and for most integration tests).
- Diagnostics logs should be written via `diagLog()` and can be viewed in the debug console if debugging the extension itself, or otherwise via vscode command `Developer:Toggle developer tools`.
- Diagnostics inside integration tests should use `console.log`.
### Error handling
- Most of the time, i.e. outside of entry point/non-awaited functions, you want to use either `throw new WkspError(...)` if there is a workspace uri available to the function, or otherwise via `throw "mymessage"`. This will then get logged further up the stack by the entrypoint function.
- Thrown errors with a type of `Error` (inc. `throw new WkspError`) will include the stack trace in the log. `throw "my error message"` will not.
- Background (i.e. unawaited) async functions/promises should always contain a `try/catch` with a `config.logError`.
- Any entry point functions/event handlers/hooks such as `activate`,`deactivate`, `onDidChangeConfiguration`, `onCancellationRequested`, `testRunHandler`, `OnDidChange` inside a filesystemwatcher, etc. should always have a `try/catch` with a `config.logError`. These are the top-level functions and so they need catches in order to log errors to the output window. 
- When adding a throw/logError, then ALWAYS test that error handling works as expected by deliberately throwing the error, i.e. check it gets gets logged correctly and only gets logged once.
- Any thrown errors are going to reach the user, so they should be things that either the user can act upon to fix, or exceptions like logic errors and stuff that is never supposed to happen that should be raised as issues in github. 

### Logging
- Logging errors and warnings will cause the Behave VSC output window to be shown when logged, logging info will not.
- *Unless you are in an entry point function, handler or unawaited async function, then errors should be thrown, not logged*. This is so that (a) all parent catches know about the error and can act on it, for example to stop a test run, and (b) the error only gets logged once (at the top of the stack).
- Logging warnings is done via `config.logger.logWarn`.
- Log to all Behave VSC output windows (regardless of workspace): `config.logger.logInfoAllWksps`. *Note - this should only be used where a workspace context does not make sense.*
- Log to the Behave VSC workspace context output window and any active debug window: `config.logger.logInfo("msg", wkspUri)`. Preferred over `logInfoAllWksps()` where possible.
- Log to the vscode test run output at the same time: specify the run parameter: `config.logger.logInfo("msg", wkspUri, run)`.
- Log only to the vscode test run output: `run.appendOutput("msg")`.
- Log only for extension developers (contributors) and users who want to see diagnostic output: `diagLog("msg")`.



---
## Before requesting a PR merge
### General
- PRs are unlikely to be accepted before release v1.0.0, but feel free to raise one if it helps to highlight an issue.
- Fixes are given priority over new functionality. Also, new functionality _must_ have tests.
- Raise an issue describing the problem that the PR is resolving and link the PR in the issue.
- Generally speaking, you should only add files to, not modify, the example project workspaces in your PR.
### Process
- Quickly review your code vs the project's [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines)
- Is your bug/use case covered by an existing test, or example project feature file? If not, is it possible to add one so it doesn't break again?
- `npm run lint` and fix any errors or warnings
- Run automated tests (verify behave results):
	- Close vscode and run `npm run test` 
		- if the tests get stuck on debug, disable the "uncaught exceptions" breakpoint in the host vscode environment
		- if the tests fail, see [Debugging integration tests](#debugging-integration-tests))
- Run standard manual UI tests:
	a. start "Debug Extension - Workspace MultiRoot", then in "project 1":
	b. Start a debug run of group 1 features and check that debug stop works (you may have to click it more than once)	
	c. Run a single test
	d. Debug a single test
	e. Run group 1 features
	f. Run all tests and check that the run stop button works
- Run more change-specific manual UI tests. After running automated tests, if you made a change that affects anything other than behave test results then you'll want to run some manual tests of the _affected areas_. As an example, if you changed anything that affects feature file/step file parsing or filesystem watchers or workspace settings, then you'd want to run these manual tests as a minimum. (Unless something fails, this process should take you less than 5 mins):
	1. commit your changes locally (because you are about to make file changes)
	2. start "Debug Extension - Workspace MultiRoot", then	in "project 1":
	3. edit a group1 feature file, change the name of the feature and save it, then: 
		- check you can run the renamed feature from inside the feature file (first play button at top of feature file)
		- check the test UI tree shows the renamed feature (you may need to reopen the node)
		- check you can run the renamed feature from UI tree
	4. edit a group1 outline feature file, change the name of a scenario and save it, then: 
		- check you can run the changed scenario from inside the feature file
		- disable raised exceptions if required, put a breakpoint in environment.py and check you can debug the renamed scenario from inside the feature file
		- check the test UI tree shows the renamed scenario (you may need to reopen the node)
	5. open a diff comparison on the feature file you changed (leave the feature file open in another tab)
	6. close vscode, open it again, check that having a feature file open on start up, you can run a scenario from inside the feature file 
	(the normal feature file that is open, not the diff view)
	7. rename a feature file, in the test side bar, check the feature is not duplicated in the test UI tree, check feature tests run from the feature file, and then the test ui
	8. rename a feature group folder (e.g. 'group1_features'), check the folder is not duplicated, check feature tests run from test ui tree
	9. delete a feature file, check it gets removed from the test tree
	10. create a new feature file, copy/paste in a scenario, check it gets added to the test tree
	11. copy a feature file, check it gets added to the test tree
	12. go to a feature file, click "go to step defintion" and check at least some of them work
	13. rename the same steps file you just used, then check you can still use "go to step definition" for a step in that file
	14. use git to undo any changes created in these manual tests
	15. Start "Debug Extension - Workspace MultiRoot" and add/remove a workspace folder and check there are no errors, and that tests run as expected before/after the add/remove.
